In this lesson, I'll go over three methods of resizing and compressing images for use with WordPress
websites.
You'll see how you can use a plug in to let WordPress do this during the upload process, which allows
clients or site owners to avoid using images that are too large on their own sites.
Then I'll show you how I use Photoshop, as well as suggest a free alternative.
By the end of this video, you'll know of a few solutions that will ensure your website images are appropriately
sized and compressed for a fast loading website.
When working with WordPress and building custom websites, you'll invariably need to be working with
images and compressing and resizing them for website use.
You really want to make images that are, you know, no larger than they need to be as far as pixel
size and also know larger as far as a file size.
So a good recommended range that I like to use is, you know, no bigger than 2000 or 2048 pixels at
the long side, usually with and then no more than 200 kilobytes in size for the image, even if it's
a very, very large background image that spans the whole screen.
And so there's a couple of different ways you can deal with this.
One of which is installing a plug in.
Now, some of these plug ins are free plug ins that allow you to resize and compress images as they're
uploaded into WordPress.
Now, these can be convenient ways to allow a client or a website owner to upload large sized images
directly from their camera without having to use Photoshop or another program to resize and compress
those images first.
Often, they don't compress as far as as well as Photoshop, and you don't have custom control over
what the images look like.
But it can prevent the problem of having super large, you know, five megabyte images in the media
library, which can be a problem for website loading speed.
So I recommend the first few here.
Image Optimizer is probably the most popular plug in that you can set to resize and compress images
on their way into your media library.
I also like Smosh by PMU Dev, and there are a couple of others down here that a lot of folks use that
actually plug in to paid services that work very well.
This short Pixel Image Optimizer plugs into a paid service for doing that, and so that's one solution.
Another one.
And what I generally use is Photoshop.
Here in Photoshop, I've got a large image from my canon digital SLR camera loaded up here.
The original image as a JPEG, and if I open image image size, I can get some data.
It's a pretty large image, and it's 5000 more than 5000 pixels across on the long side.
And so what I'll generally do is resize it down to if I want it available as a full with background
image, I can leave it at 2048 2048 pixels wide and click OK and leave it so that it's proportionally
going to be the same.
It's not stretched, and so it'll choose the size for me in that way, and then I can go to file export
and export as in Photoshop.
Now I can choose to use some different photo types or file types.
I should say a PNG file is a way to use to do graphics or an image that you need to remove the background
and make a transparency so that the color or graphics behind can show through and JPEG is more for a
photographic image.
And so with this 2048 by 13 65 pixel image now by default, now as a JPEG, it's going to compress it
at this level of quality to eight and 15k.
But I want to bring this slider down so that I can get it around 200 kilobytes.
Now, when I export that, I can choose to save it anywhere on my computer here on my desktop.
This is burro days, and I usually append the word Web on the end just to tell me that I've saved it
for the web, meaning I've compressed and resized this image to an appropriate size for a web site.
So if I go and take a look at it, we could see that the quality is good and the size and the file size
are good compressed sizes for a web site.
I've opened it up in windows using the File Explorer, and I can see that as I make it larger, it's
a very high quality image.
And there's the percentage up at the top that's about 100 percent.
And so that really is looking great as an image that I can bring into the WordPress media library now.
And so that's a quick tutorial on how to use Photoshop to do this.
And if you want a free option, there is a very good free option and there are some online that do image
compression quite a lot of them, but it's hard to find one that does resizing for you as well.
This Pixel three XL XCOM either quick and easy or the advanced photo editor, either one of those are
based in your browser and are kind of like a Photoshop clone or a program that's just like Photoshop.
So you can use that to resize and compress images on your own if you like for free.
And those are three options for doing some graphic design in preparation for working with your WordPress
websites.